Updating upgrade guide (#5001)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/01-upgrading-to-v1.8.md

> - [Cloud upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud)

Reviewer: can we clarify it's 'dbt Core CLI installation guide' instead of 'CLI installation guide'?

Author: Will change in a follow up because this is copy/paste from all migration guides and we'll need to update all simultaneously.

- Release schedule (coming soon)

## What to know before upgrading

> dbt Labs is committed to providing backward compatibility for all versions 1.x, with the exception of any changes explicitly mentioned below. If you encounter an error upon upgrading, please let us know by [opening an issue](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/issues/new).

Reviewer: removing 'below' for accessibility

```suggestion
dbt Labs is committed to providing backward compatibility for all versions 1.x, except for any changes explicitly mentioned on this page. If you encounter an error upon upgrading, please let us know by [opening an issue](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/issues/new).
```

> The dbt Core v1.8.0-b1 release of dbt-core & dbt Labs-maintained adapters is planned for February 28th.

Reviewer: active voice and adding year since we used year further below

```suggestion
dbt Labs plans to release dbt Core v1.8.0-b1 and dbt Labs-maintained adapters on February 28th, 2024.
```

## Keep on the latest version in dbt Cloud

>  With dbt Cloud, you can get early access to many new features and functionality before it is in the GA release of dbt Core v1.8 without the need to manage version upgrades. For more details, refer to [Upgrade Core version in Cloud](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 With dbt Cloud, you can get early access to many new features and functionality before it's in the Generally Available (GA) release of dbt Core v1.8 without the need to manage version upgrades. For more details, refer to [Upgrade Core version in Cloud](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud).
```

The **Keep on latest version** setting is currently available in closed beta for select dbt Cloud customers and will have wider availability in March of 2024.

## New and changed features and functionality

Features and functionality new in dbt v1.8.

> ### Updated installation procedure

Author: ```suggestion
### New dbt Core adapter installation procedure
```

> ### New dbt Core adapter installation procedure

Reviewer: can we add more context on the 'why' and its benefits to users?

> Before v1.8, when you installed an adapter, you would automatically get `dbt-core ` installed along with the adapter package (if you didn’t already have an existing, compatible version of dbt-core).

Reviewer: spacing was off
```suggestion
Before v1.8, when you installed an adapter, you would automatically get `dbt-core` installed along with the adapter package (if you didn’t already have an existing, compatible version of dbt-core).
```

> Beginning in v1.8, you must install _both_ dbt-core and the desired adapter. A new `pip` installation needs to look like this:

Reviewer 2: @matthewshaver In [the issue](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/issues/4998), Grace suggested adding a link tot he migration guide:
> link to the migration guide for adapter maintainers: https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/discussions/87

```shell
pip install dbt-core dbt-ADAPTER_NAME
```

> 

Reviewer: sugg I'd also add an explicit example:
```suggestion
For example, you would use the following command if you use Snowflake:
```shell
pip install dbt-core dbt-snowflake
```

```

### Unit Tests

Historically, dbt's test coverage was confined to [“data” tests](/docs/build/data-tests), assessing the quality of input data or resulting datasets' structure.

> In `1.8`, we're introducing native support for [unit testing](/docs/build/unit-tests). Unit tests validate your SQL modeling logic on a small set of static inputs __before__ you materialize your full model in production. They support a test-driven development approach, improving both the efficiency of developers and reliability of code.

Reviewer: for consistency

```suggestion
In v1.8, we're introducing native support for [unit testing](/docs/build/unit-tests). Unit tests validate your SQL modeling logic on a small set of static inputs __before__ you materialize your full model in production. They support a test-driven development approach, improving both the efficiency of developers and the reliability of code.
```

> When you execute `dbt test` in v1.8+, it will run both unit and data tests. Use the [`test_type`](/reference/node-selection/methods#the-test_type-method) method to run only unit or data tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v1.8, when you execute the `dbt test` command, it will run both unit and data tests. Use the [`test_type`](/reference/node-selection/methods#the-test_type-method) method to run only unit or data tests:
```

```shell

dbt test --select "test_type:unit"           # run all unit tests
dbt test --select "test_type:data"           # run all data tests

```

> Unit tests are defined in YML files in your `models/` directory and are currently only supported on SQL models. To distinguish between the two, the `tests:` config has been renamed to `data_tests:`. Both are currently supported for backward compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define unit tests in YAML files in your `models/` directory and they currently only support SQL models. To distinguish between the two, the `tests:` config has been renamed to `data_tests:`. Both are currently supported for backward compatibility.
```

Author: We should avoid "You can" and be firm in our instructions.

- [Cloud upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud)
- Release schedule (coming soon)

## What to know before upgrading

dbt Labs is committed to providing backward compatibility for all versions 1.x, except for any changes explicitly mentioned on this page. If you encounter an error upon upgrading, please let us know by [opening an issue](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/issues/new).

dbt Labs plans to release dbt Core v1.8.0-b1 and dbt Labs-maintained adapters on February 28th, 2024.

## Keep on the latest version in dbt Cloud

>  With dbt Cloud, you can get early access to many new features and functionality before it's in the Generally Available (GA) release of dbt Core v1.8 without the need to manage version upgrades. For more details, refer to [Upgrade Core version in Cloud](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With dbt Cloud, you can get early access to many new features and functionality before it's in the Generally Available (GA) release of dbt Core v1.8 without the need to manage version upgrades. For more details, refer to [Upgrade Core version in Cloud](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud).
```

The **Keep on latest version** setting is currently available in closed beta for select dbt Cloud customers and will have wider availability in March of 2024.

## New and changed features and functionality

Features and functionality new in dbt v1.8.

### New dbt Core adapter installation procedure

Before v1.8, when you installed an adapter, you would automatically get `dbt-core` installed along with the adapter package (if you didn’t already have an existing, compatible version of dbt-core).

> Beginning in v1.8, you must install _both_ dbt-core and the desired adapter. A new `pip` installation needs to look like this:

Author: ```suggestion
Beginning in v1.8, the [dbt adapters and dbt Core have been decoupled](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-adapters/discussions/87). As a result, you must install _both_ dbt-core and the desired adapter. A new `pip` installation needs to look like this:
```

## Quick hits

> - [Global config flags](/reference/global-configs/about-global-configs) are deprecated from the [`profiles.yml`](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/profiles.yml) file and should be moved to the `dbt_project.yml`.

Reviewer: do we need to link to project.yml?
```suggestion
- [Global config flags](/reference/global-configs/about-global-configs) are deprecated from the [`profiles.yml`](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/profiles.yml) file and should be moved to the [`dbt_project.yml`](/reference/dbt_project.yml).
```

> - A new subcategory of flags has been created for [legacy behaviors](reference/global-configs/legacy-behaviors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new subcategory of flags has been created for [legacy behaviors](/reference/global-configs/legacy-behaviors).
```

> - The [`--indirect_selection`](/reference/global-configs/indirect-selection) flag used with `dbt test` or `dbt build` configures which tests to run for the nodes you specify.

Reviewer: maybe an example would help?
```suggestion
- The [`--indirect_selection`](/reference/global-configs/indirect-selection) flag enables you to choose which tests to run for specific nodes when using `dbt test` or `dbt build`.
```

Author: We keep these quick hits brief and let the page it links to do the speaking
